---
title: A Model-Driven Configuration Management System for Advanced IT Service Management
permalink: publications/2009-MRTb.html
layout: paper
---

## Reference
Holger Giese, Andreas Seibel, and Thomas Vogel. "A Model-Driven Configuration Management System for Advanced IT Service Management". In: International Workshop on Models@run.time. Vol. 509. CEUR Workshop Proceedings. CEUR-WS.org, 2009, pp. 61--70.

## Links
[Paper at CEUR-WS.org](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-509/paper_7.pdf){:target="_blank"}

## Abstract
A popular guideline to manage today’s complex and heterogeneous IT systems is the IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL), which provides a catalogue of best practices for IT Service Management (ITSM). However, state-of-the-art implementations of ITIL rely on a set of XML-based standards. To ease manageability and effectively exploit a Configuration Management System (CMS), which is the integral part of ITSM, we suggest in this paper a model-driven CMS by applying Model-Driven Engineering (MDE). Metamodel based models improve the manageability by providing a suitable abstraction, which enables direct user interaction as well as the application of MDE techniques such as model transformations. Furthermore, vital elements of a model-driven CMS are runtime models, which capture the managed system. In addition, this paper reports on a first prototype implementation of a model-driven CMS that exploits runtime models, their automatic maintenance, model-based analysis on these runtime models, and automatic adaptation of the managed system by facilitating changes on runtime models.

## BibTeX

<div class="bibtex">
<pre>@inproceedings{2009-MRTb,
    author = {Giese, Holger and Seibel, Andreas and Vogel, Thomas},
    title = {A Model-Driven Configuration Management System for Advanced IT Service Management},
    year = {2009},
    booktitle = {International Workshop on Models@run.time},
    volume = {509},
    pages = {61--70},
    series = {CEUR Workshop Proceedings},
    publisher = {CEUR-WS.org},
    url = {http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-509/paper_7.pdf},
}</pre>
</div>
