---
title: Language and Framework Requirements for Adaptation Models
permalink: publications/2011-MRT.html
layout: page
---

## Reference
Thomas Vogel and Holger Giese. "Language and Framework Requirements for Adaptation Models". In: International Workshop on Models@run.time. Vol. 794. CEUR Workshop Proceedings. CEUR-WS.org, 2011, pp. 1--12. _(best paper)_.

## Links
* [Paper at CEUR-WS.org (pdf)](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-794/paper_8.pdf){:target="_blank"}
* [Open access version](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1248918){:target="_blank"}

## Abstract
Approaches to self-adaptive software systems use models at runtime to leverage benefits of model-driven engineering (MDE) for pro-
viding views on running systems and for engineering feedback loops. Most of these approaches focus on causally connecting runtime mod-
els and running systems, and just apply typical MDE techniques, like model transformation, or well-known techniques, like event-condition-
action rules, from other fields than MDE to realize a feedback loop. However, elaborating requirements for feedback loop activities for the
specific case of runtime models is rather neglected. Therefore, we investigate requirements for Adaptation Models that specify the analysis, decision-making, and planning of adaptation as part of a feedback loop. In particular, we consider requirements for a modeling language of adaptation models, and for a framework as the execution environment of adaptation models. Moreover, we discuss patterns for using adaptation models within the feedback loop regarding the structuring of loop activities. The patterns and the requirements for adaptation models influence each other, which impacts the design of the feedback loop.

## BibTeX

<div class="bibtex">
<pre>@inproceedings{2011-MRT,
    author = {Vogel, Thomas and Giese, Holger},
    title = {Language and Framework Requirements for Adaptation Models},
    year = {2011},
    booktitle = {International Workshop on Models@run.time},
    volume = {794},
    pages = {1--12},
    series = {CEUR Workshop Proceedings},
    publisher = {CEUR-WS.org},
    url = {http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-794/paper_8.pdf},
    note = {(best paper)},
}</pre>
</div>
