---
title: Model-Driven Engineering of Adaptation Engines for Self-Adaptive Software -- Executable Runtime Megamodels
permalink: publications/2013-TR.html
layout: paper
---

## Reference
Thomas Vogel and Holger Giese. "Model-Driven Engineering of Adaptation Engines for Self-Adaptive Software: Executable Runtime Megamodels". Tech. rep. 66. Hasso Plattner Institute at the University of Potsdam, Germany, 2013.

## Links
[Tech. report (open access)](http://opus.kobv.de/ubp/volltexte/2013/6382/){:target="_blank"}

## Abstract
The development of self-adaptive software requires the engineering of an adaptation engine that controls and adapts the underlying adaptable software by means of feedback loops. The adaptation engine often describes the adaptation by using runtime models representing relevant aspects of the adaptable software and particular activities such as analysis and planning that operate on these runtime models. To systematically address the interplay between runtime models and adaptation activities in adaptation engines, runtime megamodels have been proposed for self-adaptive software. A runtime megamodel is a specific runtime model whose elements are runtime models and adaptation activities. Thus, a megamodel captures the interplay between multiple models and between models and activities as well as the activation of the activities. In this article, we go one step further and present a modeling language for ExecUtable RuntimE MegAmodels (EUREMA) that considerably eases the development of adaptation engines by following a model-driven engineering approach. We provide a domain-specific modeling language and a runtime interpreter for adaptation engines, in particular for feedback loops. Megamodels are kept explicit and alive at runtime and by interpreting them, they are directly executed to run feedback loops. Additionally, they can be dynamically adjusted to adapt feedback loops. Thus, EUREMA supports development by making feedback loops, their runtime models, and adaptation activities explicit at a higher level of abstraction. Moreover, it enables complex solutions where multiple feedback loops interact or even operate on top of each other. Finally, it leverages the co-existence of self-adaptation and off-line adaptation for evolution.

## BibTeX

<div class="bibtex">
<pre>@techreport{2013-TR,
    author = {Vogel, Thomas and Giese, Holger},
    title = {Model-Driven Engineering of Adaptation Engines for Self-Adaptive Software: Executable Runtime Megamodels},
    year = {2013},
    number = {66},
    institution = {Hasso Plattner Institute at the University of Potsdam, Germany},
    url = {http://opus.kobv.de/ubp/volltexte/2013/6382/},
}</pre>
</div>
