---
title: Mechanisms for Leveraging Models at Runtime in Self-adaptive Software
permalink: publications/2014-MART.html
layout: paper
---

## Reference
Amel Bennaceur, Robert B. France, Giordano Tamburrelli, Thomas Vogel, Pieter J. Mosterman, Walter Cazzola, Fábio M. Costa, Alfonso Pierantonio, Matthias Tichy, Mehmet Aksit, Pär Emmanuelson, Huang Gang, Nikolaos Georgantas, and David Redlich. "Mechanisms for Leveraging Models at Runtime in Self-adaptive Software". In: Models@run.time. Ed. by Nelly Bencomo, Robert B. France, Betty H. Cheng, and Uwe Assmann. Vol. 8378. Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS). Springer, 2014, pp. 19--46.

## Links
[Paper at SpringerLink](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-08915-7_2)

## Abstract
Modern software systems are often required to adapt their behavior at runtime in order to maintain or enhance their utility in dynamic environments. Models at runtime research aims to provide suitable abstractions, techniques, and tools to manage the complexity of adapting software systems at runtime. In this chapter, we discuss challenges associated with developing mechanisms that leverage models at runtime to support runtime software adaptation. Specifically, we discuss challenges associated with developing effective mechanisms for supervising running systems, reasoning about and planning adaptations, maintaining consistency among multiple runtime models, and maintaining fidelity of runtime models with respect to the running system and its environment. We discuss related problems and state-of-the-art mechanisms, and identify open research challenges.

## BibTeX

<div class="bibtex">
<pre>@incollection{2014-MART,
    author = {Bennaceur, Amel and France, Robert B. and Tamburrelli, Giordano and Vogel, Thomas and Mosterman, Pieter J. and Cazzola, Walter and Costa, F\'{a}bio M. and Pierantonio, Alfonso and Tichy, Matthias and Aksit, Mehmet and Emmanuelson, P\"ar and Gang, Huang and Georgantas, Nikolaos and Redlich, David},
    title = {Mechanisms for Leveraging Models at Runtime in Self-adaptive Software},
    year = {2014},
    booktitle = {Models@run.time},
    volume = {8378},
    pages = {19--46},
    editor = {Bencomo, Nelly and France, Robert B. and Cheng, Betty H. and Assmann, Uwe},
    series = {Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS)},
    publisher = {Springer},
    doi = {10.1007/978-3-319-08915-7_2},
}</pre>
</div>
