---
title: Explainable Software for Cyber-Physical Systems (ES4CPS)&#058; Report from the GI Dagstuhl Seminar 19023, January 06-11 2019, Schloss Dagstuhl
permalink: publications/2019-ES4CPS.html
layout: paper
---

## Reference
Joel Greenyer, Malte Lochau, and Thomas Vogel, eds. "Explainable Software for Cyber-Physical Systems (ES4CPS): Report from the GI Dagstuhl Seminar 19023, January 06-11 2019, Schloss Dagstuhl". 	arXiv:1904.11851. 2019.

## Links
[Report (open access)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.11851){:target="_blank"}

[Seminar page](https://thomas-vogel.github.io/ES4CPS/){:target="_blank"}

## Abstract
This report documents the program and results of the GI-Dagstuhl Seminar 19023 on Explainable Software for Cyber-Physical Systems (ES4CPS). The seminar was concerned with the challenge that for future Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS), it will become increasingly relevant to explain their behavior (past, current, and future behavior, why a certain action was taken, how a certain goal can be achieved, etc.) to users, engineers, and other stakeholders. In order to increase the explainability of CPS and their engineering tools, fundamental, interdisciplinary research is required; solutions from multiple disciplines within software engineering, systems engineering, and related fields have to be applied, combined, and researched further. The goal of this seminar was to serve as a starting point for an interdisciplinary coordination of research activities targeting ES4CPS and an incubator of a new research community around this topic.

## BibTeX

<div class="bibtex">
<pre>@proceedings{2019-ES4CPS,
    title = {Explainable Software for Cyber-Physical Systems (ES4CPS): Report from the GI Dagstuhl Seminar 19023, January 06-11 2019, Schloss Dagstuhl},
    year = {2019},
    editor = {Greenyer, Joel and Lochau, Malte and Vogel, Thomas},
    series = {CoRR},
    volume = {abs/1904.11851},
    url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.11851},
}</pre>
</div>
