---
title: Planning as Optimization&#058; Dynamically Discovering Optimal Configurations for Runtime Situations
permalink: publications/2019-SASO.html
layout: paper
---

## Reference
Erik Fredericks, Ilias Gerostathopoulos, Christian Krupitzer, and Thomas Vogel. "Planning as Optimization: Dynamically Discovering Optimal Configurations for Runtime Situations". In: International Conference on Self-Adaptive and Self-Organizing Systems. SASO '19. IEEE, 2019, pp. 1--10. DOI: 10.1109/SASO.2019.00010

## Links
[Open access version](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.01071){:target="_blank"}

[Paper at IEEE Xplore](https://doi.org/10.1109/SASO.2019.00010){:target="_blank"}

[Accompanying material: literature study](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2584266){:target="_blank"}

[Artifact/Code](https://github.com/iliasger/RTX/tree/saso19){:target="_blank"}

## Abstract
The large number of possible configurations of modern software-based systems, combined with the large number of possible environmental situations of such systems, prohibits enumerating all adaptation options at design time and necessitates planning at run time to dynamically identify an appropriate configuration for a situation. While numerous planning techniques exist, they typically assume a detailed state-based model of the system and that the situations that warrant adaptations are known. Both of these assumptions can be violated in complex, real-world systems. As a result, adaptation planning must rely on simple models that capture what can be changed (input parameters) and observed in the system and environment (output and context parameters). We therefore propose planning as optimization: the use of optimization strategies to discover optimal system configurations at runtime for each distinct situation that is also dynamically identified at runtime. We apply our approach to CrowdNav, an open-source traffic routing system with the characteristics of a real-world system. We identify situations via clustering and conduct an empirical study that compares Bayesian optimization and two types of evolutionary optimization (NSGA-II and novelty search) in CrowdNav.

## BibTeX

<div class="bibtex">
<pre>@InProceedings{2016-SASO,
    author = {Fredericks, Erik and Gerostathopoulos, Ilias and Krupitzer, Christian and Vogel, Thomas},
    title = {Planning as Optimization: Dynamically Discovering Optimal Configurations for Runtime Situations},
    year = {2019},
    booktitle = {13th International Conference on Self-Adaptive and Self-Organizing Systems},
    series = {SASO~'19},
    publisher = {IEEE},
    pages = {1--10},
    doi = {10.1109/SASO.2019.00010},
}</pre>
</div>
