---
title: A Comprehensive Empirical Evaluation of Generating Test Suites for Mobile Applications with Diversity
permalink: publications/2020-IST.html
layout: page
---

## Reference
Thomas Vogel, Chinh Tran, and Lars Grunske. "A Comprehensive Empirical Evaluation of Generating Test Suites for Mobile Applications with Diversity". In: Information and Software Technology (2020). _(in print)_.


## Links
_tba_


## Abstract
_Context:_ In search-based software engineering we often use popular heuristics with default configurations, which typically lead to suboptimal results, or we perform experiments to identify configurations on a trial-and-error basis, which may lead to better results for a specific problem. We consider the problem of generating test suites for mobile applications (apps) and rely on <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span>, a state-of-the-art approach to this problem that uses a popular heuristic (NSGA-II) with a default configuration.

_Objective:_ We want to achieve better results in generating test suites with <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span> while avoiding trial-and-error experiments to identify a more suitable configuration of <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span>.

_Method:_ We conducted a fitness landscape analysis of <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span> to analytically understand the search problem, which allowed us to make informed decisions about the heuristic and configuration of <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span> when developing <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span><span style="font-style: italic;font-size:70%;vertical-align:super;">div</span>. We comprehensively evaluated <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span><span style="font-style: italic;font-size:70%;vertical-align:super;">div</span> in a head-to-head comparison with <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span> on 34 apps.

_Results:_ Analyzing the fitness landscape of <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span>, we observed a lack of diversity of the evolved test suites and a stagnation of the search after 25 generations. <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span><span style="font-style: italic;font-size:70%;vertical-align:super;">div</span> realizes mechanisms that preserve the diversity of the test suites being evolved. The evaluation showed that <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span><span style="font-style: italic;font-size:70%;vertical-align:super;">div</span> achieves better or at least similar test results than <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span> concerning coverage and the number of revealed faults. However, <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span><span style="font-style: italic;font-size:70%;vertical-align:super;">div</span> typically produces longer test sequences and requires more execution time than <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span>.

_Conclusions:_ The understanding of the search problem obtained by the fitness landscape analysis helped us to find a more suitable configuration of <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Sapienz</span> without trial-and-error experiments. By promoting diversity of test suites during the search, improved or at least similar test results in terms of faults and coverage can be achieved.


## BibTeX

<div class="bibtex">
<pre>@article{2020-IST,
  author = {Vogel, Thomas and Tran, Chinh and Grunske, Lars},
  title = {A Comprehensive Empirical Evaluation of Generating Test Suites for Mobile Applications with Diversity},
  journal = {Information and Software Technology},
  volume = {},
  number = {},
  year = {2020},
  pages = {},
  doi = {},
  numpages = {},
  publisher = {Elsevier},
  note = {(in print)},
}</pre>
</div>
