---
title: Guidelines for Artifacts to Support Industry-Relevant Research on Self-Adaptation
permalink: publications/2022-SEN.html
layout: page
---

## Reference
Danny Weyns, Ilias Gerostathopoulos, Barbora Buhnova, Nicolás Cardozo, Emilia Cioroaica, Ivana Dusparic, Lars Grunske, Pooyan Jamshidi, Christine Julien, Judith Michael, Gabriel Moreno, Shiva Nejati, Patrizio Pelliccione, Federico Quin, Genaina Rodrigues, Bradley Schmerl, Marco Vieira, Thomas Vogel, and Rebekka Wohlrab. "Guidelines for Artifacts to Support Industry-Relevant Research on Self-Adaptation". In: SIGSOFT Softw. Eng. Notes 47.4 (2022), pp. 18--24. DOI: 10.1145/3561846.3561852.

## Links
* [Open access version](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2206.12492){:target="_blank"}
* [Paper at ACM DL](https://doi.org/10.1145/3561846.3561852){:target="_blank"}

## Abstract
Artifacts support evaluating new research results and help comparing them with the state of the art in a field of interest. Over the past years, several artifacts have been introduced to support research in the field of self-adaptive systems. While these artifacts have shown their value, it is not clear to what extent these artifacts support research on problems in self-adaptation that are relevant to industry. This paper provides a set of guidelines for artifacts that aim at supporting industry-relevant research on self-adaptation. The guidelines that are grounded on data obtained from a survey with practitioners were derived during working sessions at the 17th International Symposium on Software Engineering for Adaptive and Self-Managing Systems. Artifact providers can use the guidelines for aligning future artifacts with industry needs; they can also be used to evaluate the industrial relevance of existing artifacts. We also propose an artifact template.


## BibTeX

<div class="bibtex">
<pre>@article{2022-SEN,
 author = {Weyns, Danny and Gerostathopoulos, Ilias and Buhnova, Barbora and Cardozo, Nicol\'{a}s and Cioroaica, Emilia and Dusparic, Ivana and Grunske, Lars and Jamshidi, Pooyan and Julien, Christine and Michael, Judith and Moreno, Gabriel and Nejati, Shiva and Pelliccione, Patrizio and Quin, Federico and Rodrigues, Genaina and Schmerl, Bradley and Vieira, Marco and Vogel, Thomas and Wohlrab, Rebekka},
 title = {Guidelines for Artifacts to Support Industry-Relevant Research on Self-Adaptation},
 journal = {SIGSOFT Softw. Eng. Notes},
 year = {2022},
 publisher = {ACM},
 volume = {47},
 number = {4},
 doi = {10.1145/3561846.3561852},
 pages = {18--24}
}</pre>
</div>
