---
title: PARLEY+&#058; Uncertainty Reduction in Self-Adaptive Systems
permalink: publications/2025-TAAS.html
layout: page
---

## Reference
Marc Carwehl, Calum Imrie, Thomas Vogel, Genaína Rodrigues, Radu Calinescu, and Lars Grunske. <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Parley+</span>: Uncertainty Reduction in Self-Adaptive Systems”. In: ACM Transactions on Autonomous and Adaptive Systems (2025). Just Accepted. DOI: 10.1145/3746234.

## Links
* [Article at ACM DL (open access)](https://doi.org/10.1145/3746234){:target="_blank"}
* [Code/Artifact](https://github.com/carwehlm/PARLEY){:target="_blank"}

## Abstract
In its quest for approaches to taming uncertainty in self-adaptive systems (SAS), the research community has largely focused on solutions that adapt the SAS architecture or behaviour in response to uncertainty. By comparison, solutions that reduce the uncertainty affecting SAS (other than through the blanket monitoring of their components and environment) remain underexplored. Our previous work proposed <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Parley</span>, a more nuanced, adaptive approach to SAS uncertainty reduction. To that end, we introduced a SAS architecture comprising an uncertainty reduction controller that drives the adaptive acquisition of new information within the SAS adaptation loop, and a tool-supported method that uses probabilistic model checking to synthesise such controllers. The controllers generated by our method deliver optimal trade-offs between SAS uncertainty reduction benefits and new information acquisition costs with guarantees for the satisfaction of requirements. In this paper, we extend <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Parley</span> to <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Parley+</span> by improving the synthesis of these controllers, and by expanding the formalisation of <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Parley+</span> to prove the validity of the synthesis. We illustrate the use and extend the evaluation of the effectiveness of our approach for mobile robot navigation and service-based system SAS. The evaluation results show that <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Parley+</span> can synthesise controllers that help achieve the system’s objectives significantly better than <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">Parley</span> in 88.1% of the cases.


## BibTeX

<div class="bibtex">
<pre>@article{2025-TAAS,
  author = {Carwehl, Marc and Imrie, Calum and Vogel, Thomas and Rodrigues, Gena\'{\i}na and Calinescu, Radu and Grunske, Lars},
  title = {PARLEY+: Uncertainty Reduction in Self-Adaptive Systems},
  journal = {ACM Transactions on Autonomous and Adaptive Systems}
  year = {2025},
  publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},
  url = {https://doi.org/10.1145/3746234},
  doi = {10.1145/3746234},
  note = {Just Accepted}
}</pre>
</div>
