---
title: L.079.05805 Software Quality Assurance
permalink: teaching/2022S-SQA.html
layout: page
---

Lecture, Summer 2022, Master Studies, University of Paderborn

[Course in PANDA](https://panda.uni-paderborn.de/course/view.php?id=33928){:target="_blank"}

## Description
The aim of the lecture is to cover approaches, technologies and strategies related to quality assurance for software systems. These include on the one hand constructive approaches such as design patterns, anti-patterns, domain-specific languages, model driven development, model quality analysis, and architectural styles, and on the other hand analytic approaches such as static reviewing techniques and dynamic testing techniques. Furthermore, approaches for the improvement of the software development process and international standards like ISO 9001, 9126, CMM etc. are covered.

* Introduction to software quality assurance
* Standards
  * Product-related Standards: ISO 9126
  * Process-related Standards: ISO 9001, CMM
* Constructive approaches
  * Patterns and styles: Design patterns, Anti-Patterns, Architectural styles
  * Model-driven development
  * Metamodeling
  * Domain Specific Languages
  * Design by contract
  * Research: Process constraints
* Analytical approaches
  * Reviews, inspections
  * Testing: Fundamental Test Process, Black Box Testing, White Box Testing

## Learning outcomes and competences:
The students are able to explain quality characteristics of software development processes, software models as well as software systems. They have understood constructive and analytical techniques used to ensure quality properties, and they are able to apply them. They can describe standards for measuring process and product quality. They are able to understand new research
approaches in the area of process and product quality.

## Literature
* Daniel Galin: Software Quality Assurance: From Theory to Implementation, Pearson / Addison Wesley, 2004
